>> Kyle Simpson: So we're gonna
set about to make, essentially,
an executable shell script.
And the one that we're gonna do in this
exercise is admittedly a little silly, but
you can probably imagine a variety
of shell scripts that you've
used from time to time.
Even stuff where you have like
you're running a babble or
you're running something like a web pack
or something, those command line scripts.
Those are essentially like bash scripts
but they've been written in node.
So let's talk about how we could
write a command line script and
have it actually execute similar
to if it was a bash script.
Again, this is gonna be a thing that's
gonna be different between the Linux,
Mac, Crowd, and
if you're working on Windows.
But one of the standard conventions if
you're working in a typical Linux kind of
shell like bash or ZHS or
whatever, is that you can
put what's called the shebang
comment at the top of a file and
that will tell the shell environment
that when it starts to execute it,
it knows what program to
hand that execution off to.
Instead of trying to
interpret it as a bash script
it'll handed off to something else.
So that's called the shebang or
the hash bang because, we do hash symbol.
And then the bang and then we give it
a file to use for the interpretation.
So we want ours to be interpreted by
node so we can give it the full path
to our node program, but
it turns out that there are places,
there are differences were node gets
installed in different systems and
if you want your script to be able to
run on all of your developer machines
at your company, you probably want to
be a little more agnostic about it.
So there's a trick,
there's another program called env,
E N V that'll be included in all
your distributions of Linux or Mac.
You give it the name of an executable and
it finds where that is for you.
So what we're actually
gonna do is do usr/bin/env,
and then we're gonna tell it node.
This is saying go find node
wherever it is in my system and
use node to interpret
the rest of my program.
Before I forget,
because I always seem to forget this,
you should always be running
your code in strict mode.
So go ahead and put a use strict there.
But I wanna make a point about use strict
because we typically think of use strict
as only working if it's at the very top of
the file without anything in front if it.
And we actually have something
here in front of it.
So the thing that you should be aware of
is that by the time this line of code
runs with node,
that line of code is actually empty.
So it's already been stripped out
by the processing environment by
the time it runs.
You don't have to worry about this
being invalid JavaScript syntax.
All right, so now that we have it
interpretable by an environment,
by the shell environment.
Now what we wanna do is
actually make it an executable.
So again, because I'm in a kind of Linuxy
sort of a system, if you look at the file
descriptors here, you'll see that
the user has execution bit on it.
That's because that's how I have
already edited this file and
it may already be depending on how you got
these files, it may already be set, but
if that x is not there,
then it can't be executed as a user.
So if you don't have
the x there you can say,
change mod and you can say user plus x and
then say ex1.js.
And that will tell it to put that x bit
on there if you didn't already have it.
Once you have that executable bit,
that file permission on your .ex1
instead of saying node ex1.js,
now you're gonna be able
to say just ./ex1.js.
Very similar to how you might run
any other program that might be
installed on your computer,
you can say .1./exi.js.
So now we've made it an executable script.
But one other thing that we wanna do,
right off the bat whenever you're going to
work with a node script, or any kind
of shell script that you're making
is you wanna have a good,
clean output for these things.
And it's incredibly common
to skip this step, and
I'm just gonna tell you
don't skip this step.
Whenever you're writing scripts, put for
yourself some kind of help output for your
scripts, because you will come back to the
script three days from now and completely
forget how it is you're supposed to
pass stuff in or run it or whatever.
Just always remember,
it's a good idea to have some help output.
So we're just going to, and
you can do this however you like.
But I'm gonna write a little
print help function,
just to print some basic help output.
So we're gonna say, console.log,
and then we'll say ("ex1 usage").
I will say ("ex1 usage") and
then console.log,
and then we'll say ("ex1.js--help").
And then,
>> Kyle Simpson: However you want it to
read, but just something kind of slightly
friendly for future you or
anybody else who wants to use this.
So, just define that function and
then call it.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then as you start to run this,
if you go back to your command line and
you run it.
Now you should see what looks like
a typical command line script,
this got some like official
looking output to it.
You can put a copyright there if
you really want to protect your
intellectual property.